Hello, my name is Tommy brought
Chia and I'm a senior at the
University of nebraska-lincoln.
I create a table the IEP
assistant for Microsoft Azure
hack for accessibility 20 21.
The challenge Tom was built to
solve was build an application
prototype with as you're born
with people with disabilities
in the context of Education.
The application should be
functional with real or sample
data.
So Thompson's because he's
built persons with
disabilities by ensuring that
they have an equal right to an
education as the education
system with with Jurassic
Period of change of beginning
of the covid-19 pandemic.
It made it easier for students
with.
These to be left behind so Tom
was built with these students
in mind as I receive feedback
from both students and their
families and the process of
building cam.
For some background and
entomology individualized
education plan.
IEP is a map of the special
services astute requires.
They are to succeed with their
disability as of 2018 or 2019
school year fourteen percent
of all us students had an IEP
as long as schools were still
open during the covid-19
pandemic including remote
learning.
They are and will require to
continue to serve students
with IEPs.
However, many schools struggle
to properly do this.
So that's where Tom comes in
Thomas and is your bought that
was created in order to assist
both students and their
Guardians with creating a new
As well as ensuring that
existing IPS are being followed.
This little fun fact Thomas
named after former, Iowa
Senator Tom Harkin introduced
the individuals with
disabilities Education Act,
which is the bill that covers
IEPs
So how we incorporated how the
inspiration for talking about
and how we incorporate
feedback from the community was
Thomas inspired by my mother
who has to be a special needs
educator editor increase
frustration and concern for
our students as schools failed
to properly follow their IEPs
before and especially as the
covid-19 pandemic started.
So Thompson also supports the
setting up of IDs as one main
challenge that families face
is learning how to begin the
process.
My mother has talked about this
on the numerous occasions with
potential clients.
My mother also be in touch with
some of her clients and their
families to get their feedback
while I was working on top.
With these clients families all
having IEPs for their children
Tom was built with ba composer
framework to deploy in a short
bot.
The bot is accessible from a
crate react to have that is
hosted within as your web app
and Tom utilizes application
and sites for improving
development.
I'm especially excited about
this as we put Tom out to
production
so that we can see
what the users are putting in
and correct Tom and improve
Tom based on that.
Finally.
Tom utilizes it language
understanding Louis for
understanding the user
responding to them correctly
during the Or Sation
now, I'm going to show you a
quick demo
in order to begin showcasing
Tom.
I'm going to create an IP on
behalf of another person.
So I'm going to turn my name
first
Tommy.
I'm reaching out on behalf of
another person.
So the name of the person is
many after my cat.
I'm hoping to create an IEP for
many.
I have not tried to create one
from any before so I start by
reaching out to many Professor
who I'm going to named after
one of the fastest ever UNL
and
Tom is going to ask for the
preface email.
Then Thomas going to spit out
this link that is going to
open up an email that is
already prefilled with
information
such as professors email in the
toolbar
or their name right there.
Minnie's name there and just
kind of a good email to get
the ball rolling on creating
an IEP for many
next.
I'm going to get an IP and
force on behalf of myself.
So first I'm gonna ask my name
and I'm reaching out behalf of
myself.
I'd like to get one in fourth I
have in this case tried
reaching out to my professor.
I have not reached out to
somebody else at the school
district level.
So I'm going to name.
Drop another professor I have
here at UNL.
And then I'm going to enter
their email address.
And once again Tom is going to
create another email that
already has suppressors email
into to line and then it's
going to pre-fill the
information that was given
throughout the email template.
There are many challenges faced
while building Tom the first
and foremost was finding time
to develop Tom while being a
full-time student part-time
entering as well as being
heavily involved in the
University system as midterms
approach.
Next one challenge that I face
that I would avoid in the
future was I hand coded the
URL create showed that the
react App instead of choosing
to utilize the package.
This was a lesson learned
moment.
Finally trying to follow an
iterative approach in order to
incorporate feedback.
My mom and her clients
with a limited timeframe and
conflicting schedules was
extremely challenging.
What is expert Tom first and
foremost I would like to add
additional chatbot features
for correcting things such as
soil baby's name or email.
I would also like to add more
questions for Tom to generate
a better email.
For example, these may include
why the student needs are has
an IEP the school the student
goes to
and for example the role of the
faculty member if they're not
there Professor.
Finally.
I would like to add a
connection to a list of at
education Advocates and
attorneys
so that they can recommend them
when
they are closed if it's needed.
Here are some of my sources and
including psychics on my
interviews.
I just like to thank you for
taking time out of your day to
judge the saxophone.